---
title: "Week 4 Reflection"
date: 2019-03-01T01:35:16+11:00
draft: true
---

## Week 4 Reflection (Sprint 4)

Week 4 has been a very eventful week, full of challenges and accomplishments. It is also the last week of UTS MIDAS Summer Studio 2019 and I have nothing but great things to say about this Cyber Security studio which has helped me to learn about Cyber Security from scratch. It has been nothing short of amazing and I did not expect a summer studio to not only push me so far out of my comfort zone but also teach me more than I can ever imagine.

We started the week off with Reverse Engineering with Ruben Thijssen, a speaker/presenter from Symantec. He presented us with a series of challenges that we had to solve that involved working with assembly instructions and binary files. (SLO 1)

More on that over at: http://frankpeng.me/blog/2019-02/reverse-engineering/

Afterwards, we were encouraged to go from "Boot2Root" on a vulnerable machine. An extra level of difficulty was to work on ones which have no write-ups/walkthroughs. Hence, we did an active vulnerable machine on Hack The Box called xREDACTEDx. This involved using a variety of network-based tools to discover ports and services being used. In addition, we had to utilise reverse shells for privilege escalation and a lot of trial and error in between. It was my very first experience going from nothing to gaining access/entry into the machine to gaining access to user and then eventually escalating that to root privileges. It was endless hours of trial and error and exploring different files and services that may be exploitable, but also discovering that being too technical, I could be over-thinking what needs to be done. (SLO 2 & SLO 3)

xREDACTEDx was a vulnerable machine which was based relatively more on enumeration and real-life. Hence, it was a great starter box for me to get my first hands-on experience.

Afterwards, we began preparing for our Expo presentation for Friday and had to look back at what felt like a long-time but in actuality, 4 weeks of intensive work that got us to this stage. This self-reflection made me realise that time management was never the real culprit behind why I couldn't find time for something. It was just the mentality and the fear of failing that stopped me from getting started. However, after experiencing the studio I find myself wondering that if Cyber Security could not stop me, what is prevent me from going further down the track. What is stopping me from learning the skills necessary to attempt a Cyber Security certification like OSCP (Offensive Security Certified Professional)? I mean don't get me wrong, it would not be easy or a piece of cake, but why can't I learn what I need to learn and get myself to my point. Changing the mentality of "Why Can't I" to "How Could I" get it done really puts you in a positive state of mind that would induce progress and instil the idea that it is reachable and possible. As the naming of the studio suggests, "Cyber Security: An Offensive Mindset", the mindset or the way that you think about something is really important. Personally, I've discovered that I have a habit of holding onto something such as an idea on how to hack into a system or the correct way or method of going about something that I become short-sighted and lose the focus on the real destination or purpose of what I wanted to achieve in the beginning. Hence, it really is important to both stay hungry but also stay open to different ideas which might challenge or even contradict your own personal ideas and opinions in the first place. It's that drive and curiosity which eventually leads you to the unexpected and quite often you might be surprised at where it leads to. As an aspiring cyber security professional, it is crucial that you don't let the traditional structures or foundations of thinking stop you from doing what you want to do or exploring what you want to explore. Since it is quite often the most unexpected places that produce the most unexpected results. A studio member, Max, once mentioned that he likes to follow the principle of KISS (Keep It Simple Stupid) as a motto for himself when going about exploring potentially vulnerable machines. It really embodies the concept of not letting any pre-existing concepts or ideas stopping you from doing what you want to do. Of course, we were taught about responsible disclosure and the way that we should go about doing Cyber Security work legally and ethically, but it is also encouraged to go beyond traditional ways of thinking and thinking outside the box on truly achieving the diverse personalities that the Cyber Security industry encourages to really bring Cyber Security to the next level.

My thoughts might be a bit far-fetched as of now, but they may not stay that way for long. In an industry that encourages curiosity and quirkiness with a bit of random and a pinch of the unexpected, who knows where it could lead you?

After creating my presentation as group with Chris and Corey, we presented on Friday to different visitors from within UTS and also externally. I was very proud that we could present what we learnt and I am happy with the progress that we have made so far. Although I still would have liked to do more, but I am ambitious and certain that I will be able to achieve the level that I want in the near future. We presented our findings and work on the vulnerable machine called Mr Robot and also our journey through the studio with our highlights, lowlights and insights. The more we spoke about our experiences, the more we realise how far we've come from where we began initially. The studio experience has really motivated me to do better and that the possibilities are truly endless. At this point, it almost seems a bit silly why I didn't do it before, but I realise how much of a contribution that the studio facilitators and members had on my learning and the impact that they had on my outlook and perspective on Cyber Security education. Without the community-based spirit and feeling of comfort and safety to learn without so much pressure, ultimately gave me the freedom to learn and absorb more quickly than I originally thought. The intensive focus on a single narrowed and well-defined area such as Cyber Security helped me to bring my attention to more specific areas of learning that helped me more than I realised what was possible. The construction and build up of the studio has undoubtedly helped me become a better person and better learner. (SLO 4 & SLO 5).




Expo Presentation:

1. Personal: https://www.canva.com/design/DADS4hk65t0/OJkVW8qaaaKk0VPlUtb7Kw/view

2. Group: https://drive.google.com/file/d/102XsN4zrmiAmHWEncDSLh35mwIXZjSBE/view?usp=sharing
