---
title: "Week 3 Reflection"
date: 2019-02-24T21:07:14+11:00
draft: true
---

## Week 3 Reflection (Sprint 3)

Week 3 was quite an intensive week at the Cyber Security Summer Studio. We became more focused on improving our practical cyber security skills with real world testing, a variety of vulnerable VMs and taking on different cyber security challenges.

On Monday, we started off the week with a Free For All session and I catched up with David. David had tried API testing on the industry sponsor's website: <REDACTED>. He tried checking robots.txt, bit swapping with a similar username to one that may exist (e.g. rupport instead of support and then flipping the bit). Furthermore, he also tried out brute forcing and also trying out different ways to get into admin. In addition, his testing led him to find out that the version of nginx that the industry sponsor's website was using and found CVE details that reveal things can could be exploited.

After the Free-For-All session, our studio facilitators took on our feedback and worked on improving our studio for the better based on the feedback that they received. As a student of the studio, it is really reassuring to know that the studio facilitators are putting in so much effort into the studio. It's nice to know that our feedback actually matters and gets taken into account.

In regards to what our first task of the week, it was a group presentation on a tool that could be used to break into complex and vulnerable systems. After discussion and finding team members to collaborate with me, I formed a group with Andy Lee, Vishal Uniyal and Ian Szklinski. We dedicated our presentation on Aircrack-ng.  Aircrack-ng is a networking suite commonly used for monitoring and cracking WEP, WPA, WPA2 password-protected wireless networks. It can monitor and collect information on 802.11 WLANs.

In our presentation, we looked at some of the commonly used tools for cracking WEP,WPA,WPA2 within the Aircrack-ng suite. These include: Airodump, Aireplay and Aircrack.

Presentation Reference: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mH4f4ga8g755NWiLRoq_wTtxcDtnLqWot66_N0-ESzY

During the presentation, I felt quite unprepared due to not being able to access my script that I written in the notes section of the presentation. I probably should've had it stored somewhere else on my phone beforehand, so that I could use it as a reference when presenting my section of the presentation. In addition, I still feel quite nervous presenting to others. Even though it may be a controlled environment in the studio and I have met most of the studio members throughout my time attending the subject so far, but I still get stage-fright and feel very anxious and nervous when I present. Surprisingly other people may not notice it as much, but my hands tend to shake in anxiety and it is something that I hope to improve on in the future with more opportunities to practice. I'm looking forward to using the presentation to other stakeholders on the 1st of March as an opportunity to interact with other audiences and improve my communication skills in conveying aspects of cyber security such as vulnerabilities and their potential impacts in a more concise manner. (SLO 4)

On Wednesday, our studio facilitators organised external stakeholders to visit. The speakers presenting about Pen-testing were from Deloitte's Cyber Security Team and had a wealth of experience that they shared with us. They gave us some insights into how our mindset should be when looking at Cyber Security and the different types of hackers that exist. Black and White Hat hackers were already explained before, but I didn't know about the term "Grey-Hat Hackers", which referred to those who had both a legal hacking side and an illegal hacking side. Most of the time, I thought it would be one or the other since I thought that doing anything illegal and unauthorised would automatically categorise you as a Black-Hat hacker. They also provided us with their perspectives on the fields of Cyber Security that existed. Most of them were already demonstrated in the Cyber Security Chart that was in our studio, but something that stood out to me was the fact about Citrix and Kiosk Breakouts. Citrix is a software solution that generally manages and accesses devices remotely. A tool in their product line called Citrix Receiver is commonly used for connecting users to desktops and applications, allowing apps to be remotely used and updated. However, one thing that caught my attention was the ability to use digital kiosk machines for malicious purposes. In general, I never really trusted the security of public facing IT systems, especially digital kiosks such as those found at the airport and at Ikea. I was generally more of the cautious and conscious type, even before entering the Cyber Security studio. However, their speech on the ease of being able to hijack and manipulate the kiosk machines to do their own bidding and be able to use that kiosk as a point of access into a wider system and potentially monitor other users after they leave is very concerning and the extent of different vulnerabilities that they can use and do on them is fascinating but also scary.

Afterwards, the Deloitte team also took us through different vulnerabilities that they commonly use and some basic ideas of not reinventing the wheel by creating a new exploit, but just by knowing where to look is important and sufficient for most tasks regarding exploiting and finding vulnerabilities to manipulate. In addition, they had a sample VM for us to experiment and learn on. It was a lot more different and one of the harder VMs that I have faced to date. However, it has opened my eyes to the potential methods that I could use in the future to apply to other situations that I meet when tackling other VMs. It was a very useful and informative learning session which I enjoyed. After their presentation, I spoke to Nathan, Viren and Simon about the transition from a more Software Engineering focused specialisation to a more Cyber Security focused field/role. In addition, since they came from one of the big 4 consulting firms in Australia, I also asked about their working conditions and work/life balance. Their responses really surprised me since they had very flexible hours and could work from home as well. Viren, who was the senior manager, gave very insightful information on the pursuit towards a Cyber Security career path and enlightened me on several aspects and misconceptions that I had about a Cyber Security career. After my discussions with them, I feel more motivated about going towards a Cyber Security role for my senior internship or graduate role. It was also very reassuring to know that there is still great demand for Cyber Security professionals in the ever-growing IT industry.

In my catch-up with Darsh, we conducted a review of my progress and the challenges/roadblocks that I have faced recently. His advice was very informative and I found comfort in knowing that I was meeting the expectation of the studio. His suggestions on trying to attempt vulnerable machines and real world testing led me to sign up for the industry sponsor's website pen-testing project. At first, I really felt that I had no skills to offer and therefore unable to really provide any real intrinsic value to the bug/vulnerability submission. However, after looking around and being curious about the different things that were going on with the website, I was able to discover issues while observing the HTTP requests and API calls that were made between the website and the server. This allowed me to find data and information to be exposed and some personally identifiable information to be found without requiring access credentials.

On Friday, I was actually able to speak with the owner/main stakeholder of the website and identify the problems involved with their website. It was a really valuable learning experience to be able to speak to someone in the industry about the security vulnerabilities that they had with their website and this built up some of my confidence. Although I still believe that the issues that I found were minor, their words of encouragement and praise were very nice and helped to build up my self-esteem and confidence to project my ideas and concerns of vulnerabilities a lot better. I hope to take on this experience to further improve myself in speaking to stakeholders about Cyber Security issues in the future. (SLO 1)

Due to a Responsible Disclosure Agreement, I would not be able to identify the business or speak in detail about the vulnerabilities that I have found. However, I am very grateful that I got to take on a real life web pen-testing experience and the excitement and enjoyment that I get out of just spending on trying to break the website was truly exhilarating. Although not being able to speak in detail, I have tried to use different methods and techniques to test the sponsor's website. Some of these include: XSS, Directory Traversal, Local File Inclusion, Upload Vulnerabilities (with accepting non image related files and going beyond upload size limits), SQL injection, checking for weak password or misconfigurations, checking at API end-points, CSRF and data leak/exposure. Some of my greatest discoveries were based on observations on HTTP requests and responses which exposed data unnecessarily.(SLO 2 and SLO 3)

Outside of in-class sessions, I have been working on the Mr Robot (tryhackme/vm). However, so far I have only got the first key within the VM and have not progressed far enough to complete the challenge entirely. I still lack a lot of analytical and observational experience in regards to cyber security. I did also try 2 of the hack the box challenges: Web Challenges (I know Mag1k and Lernaean). However, I could not find the flags after my unsuccessful attempts. In regards to the Deloitte VM, I was able to reach the dashboard and found the console afterwards to execute remote code execution, but I was using directory traversal and I was not able to find anything of significance. I believe that I still need to greatly expand on my current skill set by going through more vulnerable VMs to acquire greater experience with different vulnerabilities and cement my learning and knowledge from the subject so far. I realise and understand my current limitations with Cyber Security due to my limited skill set holding me back, but I am willing to give anything a go since staying still will not allow me to progress to where I need to go. Ultimately, I need to fail and keep failing in order to learn from my mistakes and develop the skills that are required to attempt things beyond what I can currently do. Just like how Larry, Darsh and Luke have instilled the mindset in us of trying harder than what we already have and going beyond our limits to reach new heights. Instead of thinking in a straight line, try going on a curve and a tangent. Instead of trying to stick to the box, go out of the box, walk out of the box and why not just teleport out of the box? Hence, the motto for Offensive Security: "Try Harder" is both an encouragement and a taunt for us to go out of our way and do better than what we current have done. To never settle for anything less. (SLO 5)

In our Friday session, we did also do a Free For All, where I was joined by Tanh, Xiaoke(Panda) and Chris. In our discussions, I discovered from Tanh that there was a VM given by Darsh which I neglected to notice and attempt which tries to break into a login called Marlinspike. In addition, he has tried Kioptrix Level 1, which was one of the beginner VMs to try and develop greater cyber security skills which weren't too out of reach for our level of knowledge. In addition, Tanh has already finished 2 hack the box challenges which was very commendable since I have attempted to do 2 of them as well and understand how hard it is.

Xiaoke (Panda) has also attempted Kioptrix Level 1, but he had difficulty understanding the mindset and the methods of going about looking for vulnerabilities. However, once he looked at a walkthrough he understood the logic, but worries about how he can apply the mindset to other problems and VMs.

Chris has taken on a lot of different things, including finishing the Mr Robot task and also understanding more about getting admin privileges and how to perform enumeration and privilege escalations once gaining basic user access. Moreover, he has developed a greater understanding of where to go and what to look for, such as getting a grasp on the key directories that should be searched for when looking in a network. His progress has been very fast from all the hard work that he has put in and it has made me more motivated to catch up to him.

Personally, some of my weaknesses reside in time management and organisation. I still struggle to schedule my time properly and I tend to lose focus on the priorities that I set for myself. For example, I would help out other colleagues in my studio about a certain VM or try and offer my opinion on different issues that people are experiencing around me, but lose focus on my own work and go on a tangent. This has been very costly on the time that I have within the studio to get things done in a environment that promotes hard work and good studying habits. Naturally, I feel inclined and happy to help others out and tend to thrive better in teamwork scenarios as far as I've noticed. However, outside of the studio I feel very comfortable and enjoy a quiet working environment by myself. I tend to find focus again once I get started and onto something. However, if I don't start off, I'm not a great starter. This is something that I wish to work on for the upcoming week as we are approaching the last week of our studio. I feel that I should make the most of the time that I have in the studio and take advantage of the guided learning that I have in developing on my problem statement to improve my skills in web app security and learn reverse engineering for the upcoming sessions that I have ahead. Hopefully by the end of this week, I will have a solid portfolio to present to outside stakeholders and something that I can proudly show to demonstrate all that I have achieved in the studio so far.
